---
title: Guru Graduate!
---

Well, today was my last day at
[Guru Digital Arts College](http://www.gurudigitalarts.com/). It's
been an amazing six months! I had a great feeling about the school
from the day I walked in for a tour, and they didn't disappoint.

The staff at Guru were a fantastic bunch: passionate about providing
the best education possible for students with a wide range of talents
and goals. They provided sage advice on project management and the
business as well as hands-on practical instruction on the tools and
techniques.

The education was highly tailored to my skill set. After a whirlwind
tour of Adobe CS to make sure I was up to speed, I jumped on to a
couple projects focusing on client-side JavaScript. They also brought
in a great guest instructor to get some good hands on experience with
developing iOS apps with Objective-C. In the latter half of the
program, I started working more with server-side technologies. I
worked with CouchDB, Google App Engine and Ruby on Rails; integrating
them with, and further developing my knowledge of iOS and client-side
JavaScript.

I presented my portfolio to a panel of industry professionals today,
and the feedback was great. It was awesome to be able to present it
and see what aspects really resonate with people.

But this isn't the end, it's only the beginning. The reason I built
this site to be dynamic and extensible is because I plan to keep
growing, learning and building cool stuff, and I want to share it with
the world!
